Q1 Explain the difference between a primary key and a foreign key.

 Primary Key is a unique identifier for a record in a table. No two rows can have the same primary key,
and it cannot be NULL , Whereas 
foreign Key is a  field in a table that links to the primary key of another table. 
It ensures referential integrity between two tables. 


Q2 What is the role of the finally block in Python exception handling, and how would you use it?

The finally block in Python is used to execute code after a try and except block, 
regardless of whether an exception was raised or not. It’s often used for cleanup actions 
like closing files or network connections.

Q3 Explain the difference between a commit and a push in Git.

	•	Commit: This saves changes to the local Git repository. It records a snapshot of the project at that point.
	•	Example: git commit -m "Initial commit"
	•	Push: This sends the committed changes from the local repository to a remote repository like GitHub.
	•	Example: git push origin main

Q4 Provide examples of two web APIs and describe their functionalities.

	1.	Twitter API: Allows developers to interact with Twitter data, such as posting tweets, retrieving user information, and analyzing trends.
	2.	Google Maps API: Provides location-based services, enabling developers to display maps, search for places, and calculate distances.

Q5 Describe four tasks in the role of the Product Owner in Agile development.

	1.	Define the product backlog: The Product Owner creates and prioritizes a list of tasks or features that need to be developed.
	2.	Act as a liaison between stakeholders and the team: They ensure that the team understands the product vision and stakeholder needs.
	3.	Set priorities for sprints: The Product Owner decides which features or tasks should be worked on in each development cycle (sprint).
	4.	Accept or reject completed work: They review the work completed by the team and ensure it meets the criteria.

 Q6 Name two types of SQL joins and provide an example scenario for each.

	1.	INNER JOIN: Returns only the records that have matching values in both tables.
	•	Scenario: If you I had  a “Customers” and “Orders” table, and id want to get only the customers who have made an order.

SELECT Customers.name, Orders.order_date 
FROM Customers 
INNER JOIN Orders ON Customers.customer_id = Orders.customer_id;


	2.	LEFT JOIN (or LEFT OUTER JOIN): Returns all records from the left table and the matched records from the right table. If there is no match, the result is NULL.
	•	Scenario: If I want to list all customers, even if they haven’t made an order.

SELECT Customers.name, Orders.order_date 
FROM Customers 
LEFT JOIN Orders ON Customers.customer_id = Orders.customer_id;

Q7 Explain the difference between mutable and immutable data types in Python, provide an example of each.

	•	Mutable data types: These can be changed after creation. Lists, dictionaries, and sets are mutable.
	•	Example:
my_list = [1, 2, 3]
my_list[0] = 0  # The list is modified
print(my_list)  # Output: [0, 2, 3]


	•	Immutable data types: These cannot be changed after creation. Strings, integers, and tuples are immutable.
	•	Example:

my_string = "Hello"
my_string[0] = "h"

Q 8 Explain both Agile and Waterfall approaches to Software Development, and at least 2 differences between them.

	•	Agile: A flexible, iterative approach to software development where requirements and solutions evolve through collaboration.
	•	Features continuous delivery, frequent feedback, and adaptation.
	•	Waterfall: A linear, sequential approach where each phase (e.g., requirements, design, implementation) must be completed before moving to the next.
Differences:
	1.	Flexibility: Agile is flexible and adaptive, allowing changes at any stage. Waterfall is rigid and less adaptive to changes.
	2.	Testing: In Agile, testing is done continuously throughout the project. In Waterfall, testing is done at the end of the development cycle.
